###Involving word sense disambiguation e.g semantics given a specfic context
a serve: help with food or drink, hold office, put ball into play
b. dish plate; course of meal, commncations device
'he served the dish' then both words being used with the topic of 'food', not a
shift in topics - we automatically disambiguate words using context of the surrouding words
e.g we can see 'by' can interpret the meaning
1. i, The lost children were found by the searchers(agentive)
ii. The lost children were found by the mountain (locative)
iii. the lost children were found by the afternoon (temporal)

Prounoun resolution


3.
iv. The thieves stole the paintings. They were subsequently SOLD
v. The thieves stole The paintings. They were subsequently CAUGHT
vi. The thieves stole the paintings. They were subsequently found

One is ambigious, answering 'who did what to whom', invovles finding the antecedent of the Prounoun in vi
they - the thieves or the paintings?
Computaional techniques for resolving this include ANAPHORA RESOLUTION [what a pronoun or noun phrase refers to]
and SEMANTIC ROLE LABELING [Identifying how a noun phrase relates to a verb: agent, patient, insturmnet]

GENERATING LANGUAGUE OUTPUT:
Machine needs to be able to answer a user's question.


SUMMARY
1.Texts are represented in Python using lists: ['Monty', 'Python']. We can use indexing, slicing, and the len() function on lists.
2.A word "token" is a particular appearance of a given word in a text; a word "type" is the unique form of the word as a particular sequence of letters. We count word tokens using len(text) and word types using len(set(text)).
3.We obtain the vocabulary of a text t using sorted(set(t)).
4.We operate on each item of a text using [f(x) for x in text].
5.To derive the vocabulary, collapsing case distinctions and ignoring punctuation, we can write set(w.lower() for w in text if w.isalpha()).
6.We process each word in a text using a for statement, such as for w in t: or for word in text:. This must be followed by the colon character and an indented block of code, to be executed each time through the loop.
7.We test a condition using an if statement: if len(word) < 5:. This must be followed by the colon character and an indented block of code, to7 be executed only if the condition is true.
8.A frequency distribution is a collection of items along with their frequency counts (e.g., the words of a text and their frequency of appearance).
9.A function is a block of code that has been assigned a name and can be reused. Functions are defined using the def keyword, as in def mult(x, y); x and y are parameters of the function, and act as placeholders for actual data values.
10. A function is called by specifying its name followed by zero or more arguments inside parentheses, like this: texts(), mult(3, 4), len(text1).
